and the walls were hard stucco.
In each room we had a laboratory where we could
brush our teeth and shave. One laboratory. There
were two closets, one on either side of the room in
those buildings, so that each room, each person in
the room had a private closet.
And As I say, the front doors were steel and the
contractor had misjudged, either the contractor
misjudged the size of the door opening or they
thought that this was going to be a good
ventilating program to make those doors too
sharp. And so each door was this far from the floor
And so, as a result, if anybody down the hall
hollered, it just reverberated through that
door. Was there space over the door? No. Okay. So,
no. It fit tight above the door and no transom. Now
in the other depot dorms, every door had a transom
up above. You could crawl up through the transom
and crawl into the room. But in these dorms, they
didn't. They had the steel door. But they... They
were about this much too sharp. Later on, I
understand, they came in, I'm sure they did what I
said, and they built an attachment and they took
those doors off and screwed on the extensions of
the doors so that they eliminated the sound
problem. Did anything ever happen under that
door? Oh yeah, oh yeah. Many things happened under
those doors. They'd throw live fire over there and
everything else. Some of those old dorms, they'd
build a fire right outside the door, and they'd
knock on the door, and they'd all run and go open
that door and have a bunch of deuce breaking and
burning. I think. Was it possible to crawl under
that door? No. Wasn't that how it was? It wasn't
quite that high. You couldn't crawl under it. But
you could sure throw things under it. All right.
The new dorms then, the rooms seem bigger, nicer.
rooms were nicer, cleaner, more modern, more
up-to-date, had a nice big window. And they had a,
what do you call these things that give off heat?
Radiators. Radiators. They had radiators. They
heated the rooms with steam heat from the tunnels.
And so you all filled those dorms up. Filled them
up. But the core could not all be accommodated over
there. Most of the core was accommodated over
there, but not the whole core. And so they still had
core in the Walton Hall. They had core in Law and
Puryear Hall. They had core in
Goodwin Hall. Somewhere along was stopped being
used as a dormitory, but not at that time. Goodwin
Hall and Mitchell Hall, Law and Puryear, Hart
Hall, were all still used by the Corps. Alright, so
you're a sophomore. How much better was it to be a
sophomore than a fish? Well, it was much better. It
was much better as sophomores so we had
responsibilities. We were ordered to try to treat
the incoming freshmen as we were treated. And I
guess we did. We tried to teach those incoming
freshmen how to know everybody in the in the
outfits by name and where they were from. I guess we
mistreated them to some extent
but not too badly.
We had a lot of students dropping out in those days.
About, do you remember anything about the
survival rate of your freshman class next year?
About how many? I'm gonna guess, and see company,
I'm gonna guess that out of say, say we had 30
freshmen,
by the time we came back there were 20, so what would
that be? 25%.
We would drop from, say, 30 to 20. That's a third,
isn't it? We lost a lot to academics. We lost a lot to
kids who just weren't happy. And we lost some to the
economy. So the pressure is still going on. As far
as you can recall, about how much money did you
bring with you as a freshman? Well, I brought about
$25. And I brought a check that my dad had given me.
And I wrote a check on him for my fees. Do you
remember what that was? I can tell you what I went to
school on for two semesters. I went to school as A&M
and paid all my room and board and everything for
about $360.
And you didn't have a job? Not at that time, not as a
freshman. I got a job as a sophomore for Mr. Walter,
P.M. Walter. And what happened was that Chick
Sale, who was a lieutenant and also had something
to do with advertising for the battalion, And I got
involved with Chick some way, or he had issued a
call for volunteers to sell advertising for the
battalion. And I went down there and volunteered
to sell advertising. And they put me in downtown
Bryan, calling on Walters and WSD and Jack Lester
and some of those men. Called on Alistair Wallerup
and sold him advertising for the tag. And then the
next summer, I had a letter from Mr. Wallerup
wanting to know if I wanted to go to work for him. And
I said, oh, yes. He said, I'd like for you to come a
week early so you can be here to help sell these
beautiful arms. So then I worked for Mr. Wallerup
all my sophomore and junior year. About how many
hours a week? Well, I would work all afternoon
Saturday. That would be about five hours. But we
stayed open until 5 or 6 hours on Saturday. I'd work
about 12 hours a week and he'd pay me 50 cents an
hour. So I was making $12, I was making $6 an hour.
And you were a salesman? I was a salesman. How did
you get back and forth from downtown? I rode the
bus. And do you remember what it cost? Ten cents.
Ten cents. Ran about how often? It ran about every
hour. Every hour. I'd catch the bus right there to
the corner where Mr. Walters' store was on the
corner. I'd catch it there, say, I'd catch that bus
at 5.30 so I could make formation for, because I was
the first sergeant. in the K Company, and I had to
leave the company in for mess. And then my senior
year, well I didn't work my senior year,
but my sophomore year I was, I wasn't private, I
wasn't, I guess I was a corporal or whatever they
were, sophomore year. Then I became a first
sergeant. While I was in my junior year, I had to
leave the, call them to order and get them all in and
so forth. So I had to leave in that town. But I was
making about, what? I was making more than $6 a
week. I was making about $10, $12. Right. And so you
mentioned selling uniforms? Yes. Waldrop sold?
Yeah. What were these, optional uniforms?
Optional uniforms, like shirts, and ornaments,
and ties, socks, slacks, khaki slacks. And also,
remember, Aden Academy was a pretty big factory in
those days. And those boys had to buy all their
uniforms. And Mr. Waldrop was the main supplier of
uniforms. Was he the largest men's clothing
store? Yes. His was the largest men's. Another
store across the street was WSD, but Mr. Morton did
more business than anybody else. Alright, let's
digress on downtown. Alright. Who were the major
businesses downtown? Well, Caldwell Jewelry, a
place called Creamland that was right by the Old
Palace Theater. Palace Theater, across the
street was the Dixie Theater. On the corner there
was Mr. McQueen's Drugstore. Then the next
building was Mr. Walter's, me and Walter. Then
next door was the Collegiate Shop, which was a
ladies shoe and dress shop. And then another spot
down was Mr. Jack Lester's a ladies shop, and
Mr. John Seely Caldwell had a jewelry store, and
Sankey Park had a jewelry store. Was there a five
and ten cent store? Yes, there was a F.W. Woolworth
across the street, and there was a Perry's. And
there were several eating restaurants. There was
the LaSalle Hotel active, and they had a coffee
shop in the LaSalle Hotel. There was a Charles
Hotel across the street from the LaSalle Hotel
with a small coffee shop in it. American Steam
Laundry, Central Texas Hardware was where it was.
The banks, the First State Bank. the City National
Bank, the First National Bank, all there
downtown. There was Howell Lumber Company,
Parker Lumber Company. There was an automobile
dealership, two of them downtown. One was a
postmobile, one was a Nash & Rambler, and another
was the
Plymouth and Well, the railroad station was on the
east end of, I mean the west end of the downtown
area. The railroad station was on the west end of
the downtown station. Now, but by this creamery
was the barbershop. By the barbershop was the
Carnegie Library. And on the other side of the
Carnegie Library was Charles Hotel and a few
little places along there. Way down at the east end
of Main Street, was there an ice house? Yes. Right
at the end was an ice house. The street was real
wide, you know, they say it was designed so that a
buggy with a team of mules or horses could make a
U-turn downtown. But at the end was the old ice
house. old shoemaker i think shoemaker
wholesale grocery and ice house how often would an
aggie student go downtown to the movie about every
saturday night oh really yeah maybe maybe not on
average quite that much but it was a usual thing to
go to downtown ryan to go to movies on saturday
night that was a big a problem with us students
because we thought that she ought to have a movie
house on the station. And she always promised us
one, but never would provide one. So there wasn't a
movie theater? No. Oh, I didn't know the campus
wasn't there yet. No, there was not a movie
theater, except the free one, which was in the
old... Go ahead. No, it was in the old... Assembly
Hall, they called it. And I'll tell you where it was
located. It was right there where the chapel is.
And they tore that down to build it. How often were
those free movies? Every Sunday after lunch, they
were free. We'd have lunch in the dining hall in
Hedford. And they sold popcorn for about a nickel a
big sack. That whole floor would be full of
popcorn. But we had no movie house in College
Station until finally the campus theater was
built. And it was built about my senior year.
Matter of fact, I was in that movie when we got word
that Japan had returned to Pearl Harbor. Describe
that. We had lunch in the dining hall. Robert
Taylor in a yank at Oxford. We
went to the movie.
By then, it would just be blank. When everybody got
in, we'd go to the start and have all the
preliminary stuff. But anyway, we went through
that. And then the movie started. I guess it had to
be nine or ten minutes.
And
somebody
talking on the phone, checking in with my guest,
said that they just learned that the Japanese have
attacked Pearl Harbor. And that the show would be
shut down. And that every person in the movie
theater should go to his door and wait on it. I
turned to Bob Russell, my friend and classmate who
I was with, and I said, Bob, where's Pearl Harbor?
We didn't know where Pearl Harbor was. But we went
to the room and turned the radio on, and we all
listened. Of course, they
were all hunting with the attack on Pearl Harbor
and trying to give us news about it. What did, that
night and so forth, what did you all think that
would mean to you? We didn't know what it would mean
to us. We thought that they might just take us right
out and put us in the service. We didn't know, but we
stayed on our radios until we got to classes the
next day and they called meetings all over the
campus and within a week, after they attacked
Pearl Harbor, they totally changed our program.
First thing they did, we didn't like it in our
class, nearly threw in their rank, they said all
seniors, all students will go to breakfast every
morning. We didn't like it. All students will take
calisthenics every morning before they go to
practice. So they put a lot of new rules in
immediately, all for our benefit. And as far as you
know, those decisions were made on the campus.
There wasn't an order from Washington. There was
no order from Washington. I've gathered that the
rules were made that were changed, were made by the
administration on the campus, looking to the fact
that we were gonna, we were in a war and we were gonna
have to do things all different. And I was put under
tremendous pressure as president of the senior
class because I had all the boys that were seniors,
they were saying, well we'll just give up our
contracts. And I had to deal with that. And I
finally took some of the leaders of the class, plus
some of the biggest rabble-rousers, and I went to
Houston. I called Colonel I. Gashburn, who was my
good friend, I said, I've got to bring these boys
down, and this whole city class is about to walk
out. And I said, I don't want them to walk out. I want
them to stay here. And I took some of them. I figured
the worst rabble-rousers, I'd just take them. And
I took some of them with me. And he talked to us up in
his office for about two hours. He said, boys, it's
a war. By that time, he was head of the, he'd just
been made governor. A little later, he was head of
the Chamber of Commerce at the time. But he was
later made head of the top shipyard. But anyway, he
told a decent boy, he said, this thing is
important. And we came back, and he kind of
persuaded them. We called a meeting, and these
rabble-rabblers got up and said, hell, I was
against this whole thing, but now I'm part of it.
You've got to keep your connections. Now, they
were not thinking about resigning their
commission to avoid active duty, were they? No,
no. It was a protest over having to... These
routines. Yeah, protest against the routines.
Not to avoid active duty. They were perfectly
willing to fight. Right. But they just didn't like
the idea of the administration telling them they
had to change their routine. You know how Aggies
are. Do you remember in those first few nights, do
you remember talking with friends, maybe after
the light was turned off in your room and so forth,
about what it might mean in your lives? Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah. We discussed it.
What kind of a... combat we were going to be in. As a
matter of fact, several of my friends and I
transferred from the infantry into the Air Force,
not necessarily to get away from the infantry. But
more important, we felt like the Air Force was
going to be a more glamorous thing to be in and more
exciting. And I did transfer and stayed four years
in the Air Force, but I never got to fly because By
the time I got ready to fly and applied for my flight
school, I was already a captain in the Air Force.
And I got promoted in 90 days from a second
lieutenant to a first lieutenant. And then I got
promoted in six months, which was the minimum you
could serve a first lieutenant to be a captain. six
months I was promoted to captain and I applied for
the flying school and I got turned down because not
necessarily turned down but they said we are not
taking captains in grade in flying school they
said now if you want to revert to a second
lieutenant we will enroll you in flying school and
I said I don't want to drop two levels back to go to
flying school So I turned it back. You go on active
duty after graduation? The day after graduation.
In 42? In 42. During that, those six months or so
from Pearl Harbor to graduation, did the conduct,
the behavior of the Corps members change? Did
things become more serious? Things became very
much more serious. They gave us a Christmas
holiday. But it was one week where we hadn't been
getting two weeks. We got five days off for
Christmas. We all came back. They eliminated what
was spring break, and they eliminated any other
holidays. And so they graduated us two weeks
early, escalated our And so, we graduated on
May the 15th.
And I reported to active, we were commissioned on
the afternoon of May 15th. And I reported to active
duty at Ellington Field in Houston on May 16th. I
never even went home. My mother and daddy came down
here from Greenville to see me graduate, and then
they left and went back to Greenville, and I went to
Ellicott. Are you the oldest? No, I was the middle.
Okay, so you were not the first? No, I was the
middle. I was the third one to go to college. What
were their feelings, as far as you could tell, at
graduation, knowing you were going to have to go on
active duty right then? Well, they were
concerned. Because I was the first one in my family
to go in the military. My older brother came in
after I went in, and my brother-in-law came in
after I, so I was the first one in my family. My
father was very proud of the fact that I was going.
He seemed not concerned about My mother was
concerned, though I don't think either one of them
really realized what was ahead for all of us. I
don't think they had much comprehension about
what was going
to happen. But we didn't know either. We knew we
were in a war and we know there's going to be a lot of
shooting and a lot of death and a lot of terrible
things happen. We were ready for it. I mean, we
didn't,
we weren't dodging any traps or shirking any dead
people. Did you know anybody back home in
Greenwood or anywhere else that you thought of
that did try to avoid?
I didn't know a single soul. I knew a lot of people,
being a leader of the class, I didn't know a single
Aggie that attempted to avoid 100% service. Now I
did have some friends who were not able to go in
because they couldn't pass. They physically
couldn't. And they were very upset about the fact
that they wouldn't take them in because they had
diabetes a heart flutter or some physical problem
that would just not let them go in. And so they had to
do something else, but I don't know of any, anybody
that tried to avoid service. Were any of the, this
is a turning point, were any of the Kishy boys here
then?
No, I don't think so, but there was, There was Yee,
Henry Yee. What about Henry Kawahata? Kawahata
was here. As a matter of fact, Henry Kawahata was
over there, close to C Company. I guess Henry was in
A Company. Henry Kawahata, Henry Yee, Howard
Chang,
another Japanese boy, I don't know his name, that
the FBI thought may be a sympathizer.
Did any students pick on them, tease them? No.
Actually,
Chang was a Hawaiian, and Chang left A&M shortly
after and went back to Hawaii because they
attacked him. So he didn't finish his semester.
When I was in Kunming, China, I got out of the plane
and went in to the operations officer in Kunming,
China. Here was Henry Yee. He was a class of 41, a
year ahead of me. And he was a captain. I spoke to
him. We had a good visit. He was as busy as any
American you could find. I'm not sure whether he
was Chinese or Japanese. I think he was Chinese.
But anyway, it was a wonderful experience to see
the willingness of the young men of Texas at that
time who wanted to be of service at that time. At
that commencement, do you remember what it was
like, who the speaker was, what the emphasis was?
Yes, I can tell you.
I can tell you. We had the graduation commencement
exercise at the U end of Kyle Field.
Tom Gillis was cadet colonel and valedictorian of
the class. He was cadet colonel and
valedictorian. He got the months. He couldn't
function as the valedictory address. So they
called on our friend Fred Smith to give it in Tom's
place. So Tom presented the valedictory address
that, I mean Fred did, in Tom's name. Anyway, they
had a man coming from Dallas to make the
commencement
address. For some reason, he was delayed getting
there. So old General Breeze, his picture's in
that manual I saw, General Breeze, they called on
him to give an extemporaneous speech. He stood up
and made a 45 minute extemporaneous speech. Right
at the end of his speech, the real
And so then they introduced him, and he made his
45-minute speech. So we got two, a double barrel
full of commencement speeches. And then that
afternoon, about 1.30 or 2 o'clock, we went to Guy
Hall. And
we were commissioned. We got commissioned. I
know.
Uh, was, did the commissioning speaker have
anything memorable to say about what y'all were
headed into? I don't remember hardly a thing about
what they had to say. The most meaningful one that I
remember talking about it was Colonel Eichmann
when I had those boys down in his office about what,
you see he'd been a major in World War I and he'd been
in the trenches. And he knew what was coming up. And
he just talked, put serious talk right to it and
said, boys, I don't know whether you realize it or
not, but we're in a terrible war. And he said,
you're going to have to fight. You're going to have
to go. You're going to be in a shooting war. And we
really, outside of this conversation, I don't
remember what these two people, I was so excited
about that. And I think most of them. As a matter of
fact, I've talked to my classmates frequently,
and I said, what did they say? We had two
commencement addresses. Do you remember a damn
thing any one of them said? None of them. Was
commencement then, about like it is now, every
name called, every hand shaken? Right. All right,
so your mom and dad came down. Right. Did you give
them some of your belongings? Yes, I did. They took
them back to Greenville. That's my diploma.
That's my diploma. I gave them everything that I
didn't need, and they took it back to Greenwood.
And did you have a car by then? My brother had given
me a car. He had a little, he'd been drafted into the
service. He had a little 39 Ford Coupe, which he
gave to me. So you drove that to Ellicott? I drove
that to Ellicott Field, and then we were there two
weeks, and we got orders to go to MacDill Field,
Florida, and Warren Ringo, and Bill Bannister and
I got in that little Ford and drove to the park.
Alright, let's go back and recall some students.
Memorable teachers, advisors, people that made a
difference for you.